---
layout: project
title: Handheld Magnetic Field Sensor with Haptic Feedback
date: March 23, 2018
image: compass.jpg
permalink: "project-3.html"
---

## Overview
This wearable device detects magnetic fields around it and communicates their strength to the user through tactile feedback. In visualization mode it displays its own orientation and the directionality of the magnetic field relative to itself as well.

This project was primarily a break-in exercise for my interest in portable and wearable sensing devices. Use cases are mostly limited to curiosity, although practical applications do exist.  
Electrical currents and operating appliances generate magnetic fields, for example, so the wearable provides knowledge about the state of electrical circuits and equipment that doesn't rely on the equipment itself. This would be useful in situations where the equipment's own feedback is unreliable, unfamiliar, or inaccessible. Such situations might include the design and repair of heavy machinery, disaster response in urban areas, or operations near high-power equipment in atypical environments like underwater power lines or space stations.  
To build on this potential applicability the wearable uses vibration feedback to communicate with the user through a sensory channel that isn't as oversaturated as sight and sound often are. This allows the user to easily notice the information without being distracted by having to read a screen or listen to an audio cue.  
When large magnetic fields are not a matter of concern, the device still has some utility for navigation and orientation, since it can be used as a compass in visualization mode.





